Abstract

Superficial punctate keratitis (SPK) is @ chronic, bilateral epithelial keratitis. Dr Philips
Thygeson first reported SPK in 1950. Although the etiology of SPK remains unknown, it has
been reported to be associated with viral and autoimmune Ologies. The disease course is
characterized by exacerbations and remissions. The classical finding on slit lamp examination
is the presence of distinctive coarse, raised, oval ped corneal epithelium lesions. Patients
commonly present with ocular irritation an rarely. with redliced visual acuity. Topical
corticosteroids are the mainstay of treat t. orfclethgomn nly used treatments included
topical cyclosporine, contact lenses and corneal laser.

Key Words: Superficial punctate keratitis, Epithelial keratitis, Punctate keratitis a
Introduction .

The term superficial punctate keratitis was t used to describe an epidemic
keratoconjunctivitis in 1889 by Dr Ernst Fuchs,that was likely caused by a strain of adenovirus.
In 1950, Dr Phillips Thygeson, an almologist from California, reported 26 cases of
distinctive punctate epithelial itis, which later‘came to be known as Thygeson's superficial
punctate keratitis (TSPK). In 1961, Dr Thygeson described another 29 cases and proposed the
diagnostic features of TSPK to differentiate TSPK from other forms of epithelial keratopathies.
These included, chronic bilateral punctate epithelial keratitis, }6ng duration with remissions
and exacerbations, eventual healing without scars, lack offesponse to antibiotics, and striking
response to topical corticosteroids. Jones was thg/first to suggest in 1963 that superficial
punctate keratitis should formally be called Thygeson's superficial punctate keratitis.
Superficial punctate keratitis (SPK) is a safe, transient disease of the cornea with a chronic and
recurrent course of exacerbations anf remissions with an insidious onset. The average duration
varies from 3 to 7 years, but aduration up to 41 years has been ribed. The prevalence of
SPK is unknown. It can occur at every age and has no sey-fredilection. No specific systemic
or ocular infection is associated to SPK. Both~eyes are frequently involved, often
asymmetrically, but unilateral involvement been reported too. Patients complain of
recurrent episodes of foreign body sensation with ocular irritation, tearing, photophobia and
blurred vision. SPK frequently shows ‘ransient decrease in visual acuity with impact on daily
 